> **_:information_source: OpenFin Workspace:_** [OpenFin Workspace](https://www.openfin.co/workspace/) is a commercial product and this repo is for evaluation purposes (See [LICENSE.MD](../LICENSE.MD)). Use of the OpenFin Container and OpenFin Workspace components is only granted pursuant to a license from OpenFin (see [manifest](../public/manifest.fin.json)). Please [**contact us**](https://www.openfin.co/workspace/poc/) if you would like to request a developer evaluation key or to discuss a production license.

[<- Back to Table Of Contents](../README.md)

# How To Configure Analytics

OpenFin Workspace 10+ generates a set of analytic events for the Workspace Components and Platform Browser. A Workspace Platform can override the **handleAnalytics** function in it's platform override in order to receive the generated analytics. Workspace platform starter gives you the option of defining one or more analytic modules that would receive this data.

## Analytics Provider

You can configure where analytics should be sent by using our Analytics Provider. You can then specify 1 or more modules (see [how to add a module](./how-to-add-a-module.md)) that will receive the analytic events and any config you specify. We have created a [console analytics module](../client/src/modules/analytics/console/) and configured it in [manifest.fin.json](../public/manifest.fin.json) and [second.manifest.fin.json's settings.json file](../public/settings.json). It isn't configured in our [third.manifest.fin.json](../public/third.manifest.fin.json) to show that this is an optional feature.

```json
"analyticsProvider": {
   "modules": [
    {
     "enabled": true,
     "id": "analytics.console",
     "url": "http://localhost:8080/js/modules/analytics/console.bundle.js",
     "data": {
      "eventLogLevel": "info"
     }
    }
   ]
  }
```

## Platform Override

We call the analytics provider from the [platform override](../client/src/framework/platform/platform-override.ts) file:

```javascript
public async handleAnalytics(events: AnalyticsEvent[]) {
  // we call the analytics provider from here and pass the events generated by the workspace components.
}
```

## Module Helper - getAnalyticsClient

The module helper that gets passed to modules has an optional getAnalyticsClient function that might be available to your module. If available you can use it to request an analytics client. This may come back undefined if there is a reason why it cannot be provided to that module. If available it will let you pass one or more ModuleAnalyticEvents. These events do not have a source setting as this is set to Module but you can specify type and there is a data setting where you can put event/module specific information. This will be passed to the analytics modules so that they can take that feed and do something with it (send to a backend, display on as a report etc).

> **INFO:** This helper method is not passed to an analytics module to prevent accidental endless loops where submitting an analytical event would go back to the module that submitted it.

```javascript
  if(helpers?.getAnalyticsClient !== undefined) {
   const analyticsClient = await helpers.getAnalyticsClient();
   ...
   if(analyticsClient !== undefined) {
      analyticsClient.handleAnalytics([
      {
      action: "Event Happened",
      timestamp: new Date(),
      type: this._definition?.id ?? "my module",
      value: "Custom Value",
      data: { }
      }
    ]);
   }
  }
```

### Existing analytics

If you are creating an action for the Browser or a Home result through an integration then please remember that since they are being actioned by Workspace Components (Browser/Home) they will already be generating analytical events so you might not need to make use of this helper client.

## Generate From Template

You can generate the scaffold for a new module by using the following command line, where "My Analytics" is the name you want to give your module:

```shell
npm run generate-module analytics "My Analytics"
```

This will generate the code in the modules/analytics folder, add an entry into webpack to build it, and add it to the manifest so that the module is loaded.

## Source Reference

- [Analytics](../client/src/framework/analytics.ts)
- [PlatformAnalyticsEvent](../client/src/framework/shapes/analytics-shapes.ts)
- [Console Analytics Module](../client/src/modules/analytics/console/)
- [Platform Override](../client/src/framework/platform/platform-override.ts)

[<- Back to Table Of Contents](../README.md)
